>> Jen Kramer: What we're gonna talk about
today we're gonna talk about box models,
we're gonna talk about
the display property.
We're gonna talk about how to make your
navigation bar so that they go horizontal,
vertical, look pretty,
we're gonna talk about floats and
we're gonna talk about flex box.
That is about five weeks of material
we're gonna cover, [LAUGH],
which is why we need to go
a little bit long today.
And then I have a project for
you at the end of all this,
that's gonna combine everything that
I've talked to you about today.
And you'll be able to put that together
into one document it's gonna be a blog
website that you're gonna lay out,
sound good?
So that is the roadmap for today.
So we are gonna rely heavily
on our website here at
frontendmasters.github.io/bootcamp be
sure to click on
the third link for layout and
we're gonna be working from this today.
And there's links in here, a lot of links
to CodePens that we're gonna work with
rather than doing so much in the VS Code,
we're gonna do more with CodePen today.
So let's go ahead and get started then,
we are taking a look at that website,
and the very first thing that I have
here for you is a diagram, okay,
and this diagram is a diagram of
the so-called box model in CSS.
Every single HTML element anywhere
on your webpage has a box around it,
that's all your website is,
it's boxes and boxes and boxes and boxes.
And the boxes are everywhere and
you can never get away from them, okay?
There are no circles, there are no
triangles, there are only boxes in CSS
and every box around every
element has three properties,
that we're going to discuss
in great detail today, so
these three properties are the margin
the border and padding.
So border is the easy one, right?
We did a little bit of work with border
yesterday that puts the pretty line around
whatever it is that we're working with,
so that one's pretty straightforward.
Border can be put together in
a whole bunch of different ways,
you can have just one border in
which case that would make what?
If you only had a border on one side,
that would be a?
>> Speaker 2: Line.
>> Jen Kramer: A line, [LAUGH] okay,
so you can put a border just on
one side and make a line with it.
You can put it on two sides and
make parallel lines maybe, yeah?
You can put it two going this way.
You can put it on three sides.
So we'll talk about all
the ways to do that.
There is the distance between
the actual content, whatever you have,
whether it's words or pictures,
the distance between that content and
the border is called padding,
okay, that's padding.
So if you don't want your border
smashed up against your picture,
you want a little breathing space.
You don't want your border
smashed up against your text,
you want a little breathing space.
You do that with padding and once again,
padding can be on one side, two sides,
all the sides,
we'll talk about how to do that too.
And then finally,
margin is the space between the border and
the rest of your web page,
so that's the space outside.
So some of you yesterday wanted to put
space, wanted to have one big box here and
I wanna have a space, and
I wanna have a box here.
Margin is gonna be responsible for that
space in between those boxes, all right?
So that's how we define margin,
padding, and border and
I will show you here on the webpage just
so that you have this for reference.
We've talked about all of these
properties here in great detail,
you can scroll through all this
wonderful stuff about padding,
margin width, read about it in detail.
And so with that I'm gonna go ahead and
start with the CodePen,
so back at the top of that,
there is a CodePen here,
just above that graphic,
go ahead and click that link.
>> Jen Kramer: And
it doesn't open in a new window, so
I'm gonna open mine in a new window,
okay, [COUGH] and
it's a very simple little CodePen
that we have going on here.